netdata/installer: Add support for offline installs using kickstart or kickstart-static64 (#6693)
netdata/netdata: packaging/installer/README.md

-   `--dont-start-it`: Prevent the installer from starting Netdata automatically.
-   `--stable-channel`: Automatically update only on the release of new major versions.
-   `--no-updates`: Prevent automatic updates of any kind.

> -   `--local-tarball-override`: Useful for offline installations. Pass four file paths: the netdata tarball, the checksum file, the go.d plugin tarball and the go.d plugin config tarball to force kickstart run the process using those files.

Reviewer: A few tweaks here:

```suggestion
-   `--local-tarball-override`: Used for offline installations. Pass four file paths: the Netdata tarball, the checksum file, the go.d plugin tarball, and the go.d plugin config tarball, to force kickstart run the process using those files.
```

Example using all the above parameters:

```bash
$ bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh) --dont-wait --dont-start-it --no-updates --stable-channel --local-tarball-override /tmp/my-selfdownloaded-tarball.tar.gz /tmp/checksums.txt /tmp/manually.downloaded.go.d.binary.tar.gz /tmp/manually.downloaded.go.d.config.tar.gz
```

> Note: `--stable-channel` and `--local-tarball-override` overlap, if you use the tarball override the stable channel option is not effective

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what "is not effective" means. Does `--local-tarball-override` default to the nightly updates?

Author: --stable-channel is only meaningful when we plan to download something.
When using the override, the user provides the tarballs so the flag doesn't make any sense

-   `--dont-start-it`: Prevent the installer from starting Netdata automatically.
-   `--stable-channel`: Automatically update only on the release of new major versions.
-   `--no-updates`: Prevent automatic updates of any kind.

> -   `--local-tarball-override`: Useful for offline installations. Pass two file paths, one of the tarball and one of the checksum file to force kickstart run the process using those files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `--local-tarball-override`: Used for offline installations. Pass two file paths, one for the tarball and one fir the checksum file, to force kickstart run the process using those files.
```

Example using all the above parameters:

```sh
$ bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart-static64.sh) --dont-wait --dont-start-it --no-updates --stable-channel --local-tarball-override /tmp/my-selfdownloaded-tarball.tar.gz /tmp/checksums.txt
```

> Note: `--stable-channel` and `--local-tarball-override` overlap, if you use the tarball override the stable channel option is not effective

Reviewer: Same comment here as the one above. We should clarify which channel they'll be on when they use `--local-tarball-override`.

-   Protect yourself from the rare instance when major bugs slip through our testing and negatively affect a Netdata installation
-   Retain more control over the Netdata version you use

## Offline installations

You can install Netdata on systems without internet access, but you need to take
a few extra steps to make it work.

By default, the `kickstart.sh` and `kickstart-static64.sh` download Netdata
assets, like the precompiled binary and a few dependencies, using the system's

> internet connect, but you can also supply these files from the local filesystem.

Reviewer 2: connect → connection

cd /tmp

# Netdata tarball
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/netdata/netdata/releases/latest | grep "browser_download_url.*tar.gz" | cut -d '"' -f 4 | wget -qi -

# Netdata checksums
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/netdata/netdata/releases/latest | grep "browser_download_url.*txt" | cut -d '"' -f 4 | wget -qi -

# go.d plugin 
# For binaries for OS types and architectures not listed on [go.d releases](https://github.com/netdata/go.d.plugin/releases/latest), kindly open a github issue and we will do our best to serve your request
export OS=$(uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]') ARCH=$(uname -m | sed -e 's/i386/386/g' -e 's/i686/386/g' -e 's/x86_64/amd64/g' -e 's/aarch64/arm64/g' -e 's/armv64/arm64/g' -e 's/armv6l/arm/g' -e 's/armv7l/arm/g' -e 's/armv5tel/arm/g') && curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/netdata/go.d.plugin/releases/latest | grep "browser_download_url.*${OS}-${ARCH}.tar.gz" | cut -d '"' -f 4 | wget -qi -

# go.d configuration 
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/netdata/go.d.plugin/releases/latest | grep "browser_download_url.*config.tar.gz" | cut -d '"' -f 4 | wget -qi -
```

Move these files to the `/tmp` directory on the offline system in whichever way

> your organization allows.

Reviewer 2: > your organization allows.

Refers to enterprise users, which is a bit presumptive. I would rephrase this.

Now you can run either the `kickstart.sh` or `kickstart-static64.sh` scripts
using the `--local-tarball-override` option. This option requires you to specify
the location and names of the files you just downloaded. 

!!! note When using `--local-tarball-override`, the `kickstart.sh` or

>     `kickstart-64.sh` scripts won't download any Netdata assets from the

Reviewer 2: Did you mean `kickstart-static64.sh`?

your defined policy allows (if any).

Now you can run either the `kickstart.sh` or `kickstart-static64.sh` scripts
using the `--local-files` option. This option requires you to specify
the location and names of the files you just downloaded. 

!!! note When using `--local-files`, the `kickstart.sh` or
    `kickstart-static64.sh` scripts won't download any Netdata assets from the
    internet. But, you may still need a connection to install dependencies using
    your system's package manager. The scripts will warn you if your system
    doesn't have all the dependencies.

```bash
# kickstart.sh

> bash &lt;(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh) --local-files /tmp/netdata.tar.gz /tmp/checksums.txt /tmp/go.d.binary.tar.gz /tmp/go.d.config.tar.gz

Reviewer 3: Forgive my ignorance; but presumably this won't work if we're working on a disconnected environment? Shouldn't we be referencing the bash file in packaging/installer/ rather than the one online?

Author: well, we give the users the shortcut to directly execute the above command, but in the offline mode they will just download and execute it manually.

It may make sense to add a note though

Author: Actually, you just pinpointed something without realising it.
Kickstart has the dependency script that is running directly from the web, that will also need to be present for the process to work offline

Author: coming back on the instructions, I don't know if we should be adjusting them to make them completely guided. To me it kind of makes sense that the user can simply download and run the kickstart if he can't directly execute the proposed command, otherwise we make our instructions too verbose imho

I think i would need commends from @joelhans on this one

Reviewer 3: Sure, as you deem fit. I think I’m just coming from a lazy perspective (although technical enough to figure out I can’t run those instructions). I would hope to be able to just copy and paste the instructions in the offline install section. In order for me to do this offline install I would love to:
1. Checkout / download master branch
2. Execute one bash file that will download all of my temporary files I need (possibly into an ‘offline install’ folder rather than /tmp) as well as copying any kickstart bash scripts to that folder. 
3. Copy that folder to the non internet machine.
4. Execute one bash script to install netdata using the pre-downloaded files

Might be too much for now, and I can def try and do this myself and contribute, but that would be my best case scenario. :)

Author: That is a good point actually, it just increases the scope of the change.
You are basically asking for a preparation script, which is a layer on top of the offline install of kickstart.

This script will gather all required elements for an offline install basically.
The `offline-install.sh` script would execute the following steps with the `--prepare` switch:

1) Download all required netdata items that kickstart now needs in a folder, including the kickstart.sh script
2) Download all needed binary packages into a folder from the respective repo (yum, apt, etc)

Then using the `--install` switch, it would:
1) Install offline packages to the system
2) run the kickstart with the right flags.

I think i should create a new issue for this, so that we can prioritise and do it.
It needs some thinking to cut the right corners
